A new generation of entrepreneurs, led by visionaries such as Steve Jobs and Mark Zuckerberg, challenges Jack Welch’s style of leadership. The leading manufacturing giants of the 1980s were able to succeed in markets all over the world by investing vast amounts of capital into constructing massive facilities for production and sales, diversifying into various industries, and simultaneously minimizing risk and maximizing profit by monopolizing key technologies.
Product and market strategy: Instead of striving to create a perfect product, companies aimed to enter new markets by creating a product which was good enough to sell and had enough points of difference to separate itself from the competition. Companies constantly looked for new openings by analyzing the market and competition.
Pricing strategy: Companies priced their products at levels that maximized profits by analyzing supply-demand curves.
Sales and marketing strategy: In order to dominate distribution channels and customer contact points, companies invested heavily on massive marketing and sales teams and regularly ran large-scale marketing and promotion campaigns.
Manufacturing strategy: Companies strived to secure lower manufacturing costs relative to those of competitors through economies of scale by constructing massive manufacturing centers and purchasing raw materials in extremely large quantities.
Cost strategy: Companies constantly aimed to cut costs by searching for new sources of cheap raw materials, moving manufacturing bases to countries with low labor costs, and restructuring.
Business strategy: Companies first achieved great success with the company’s core business and then diversified into other industries using the customer base, distribution channels, and business know-how accumulated up until that point. This resulted in risk diversification and profit maximization
Business expansion strategy: Companies expanded the scale of existing businesses and diversified into new ones by actively seeking mergers and acquisitions
Constructing barriers to entry: Companies created technological barriers to entry by investing massive amounts of capital on research and development to develop core technologies and then protecting these technologies from being used by competitors by patenting them.
Organizational strategy: Securing large amounts of capital through the financial market is a critical factor in constructing large scale manufacturing facilities, operating global marketing and sales teams, constantly promoting new mergers and acquisitions, and making massive investments in research and development. Financially savvy executives consequently dominated the corporate decision-making process.
